this is the first time when people
couldn't hear jacksepticeye
and everyone rejoiced um
all right so you go by jack right yeah
jack's fine
and is there something in particular
that you want to talk about today
um not really specifically we i did talk
to
brandon about it and i was talking about
kind of the idea of parasocial
relationships and things like that but
i mean kind of everything that this job
sort of entails is fine with me
yeah absolutely um so you know my staff
asked me
a couple of questions and i got this
question a couple of times they're like
do you want to know what's going on with
jack and i was like no
and then they were like like two or
three people ask me they're like do you
do you want to know what's going on with
him and i'm like no right
and is that something we should talk
about whatever is
going on with you or is it sure
no i mean the the roughest part of it is
kind of past
what happened was that my father passed
away like
three weeks ago oh my god um yeah he
passed away at the end of january so
i've been taking
time away from youtube and streaming and
everything since then
um and i've done one update video on it
and talked a bit about it just to let my
audience kind of know where i was and
what's been going on but thankfully like
the the sort of grieving hump
is that i'm coming off the other end of
that so i'm in a better place mentally
now than i was and i'll probably be back
to making videos and stuff
next week i think uh okay okay
i assume that's what is going on with me
unless they know
something else about me that i don't
know i mean it sounds like that's the
kind of thing that
you know it sounds like it's affected
you uh
i mean affected in the sense that you
know it sounds like you've taken a step
back from making content and stuff
yeah i i took time away last year to try
and
like reevaluate who i am and what i want
to do and
where i fit into the world um and i
think this is another to hear more about
that
yeah we can circle back to that for sure
it was definitely a very formative
time in my career but i think this i was
going to take some time off in january
anyway
just because it's slow and i don't know
vacations are good
but then this sort of like forced me
into a sort of break
of sorts um but i wanted to make sure
that i took the time to do it and i feel
like i'm in a better place mentally
where i don't feel like i have to be
always on and give the audience what
they need or want constantly and being
able to take that time away and
just kind of say fu to everybody else
and take my time for myself
does that require an fu when you take
time for yourself
no no i'm being a little dramatic and
hyperbolic about it um
definitely for some people some people
need kind of like the harsh like no i'm
leaving
and you need to be okay with that for a
couple of weeks
but most people have been extremely
supportive about it okay
um yeah so what do you want us
uh thank you for sharing that with me i
i didn't uh i mean i guess in a sense i
did mean to pry
it's just it was strange like i don't i
try to actually talk to people sort of
blind
in the sense that um i think when when
we don't talk to people blind it's
quickly to get it
it's really easy to get into like drama
usually is what it is
like something is going on and like it's
like i don't really
care about that you know right um
so so but if it feels important to you
what i'm hearing from you is that you
know something really unfortunate
happened i'm assuming that you view it
as unfortunate
um which is a pretty big assumption but
and that you've
kind of worked through it you feel like
you're in a pretty good place and and
so i'm not hearing a whole lot that
needs to be talked about there
um probably not i mean we can go into it
a little bit um
i guess just uh because i don't feel
like i don't feel like it really happens
too often
in the online community you don't really
hear about this sort of thing happening
fairly often and um i think sort of to
owe it to the legacy of my dad it's nice
to kind of
remember him in good spirits and kind of
talk about him in a way
so i talked about him a little bit on my
channel before and i've
i've never been hugely close with him
growing up and
there's always kind of been a distance
to it but i think having something like
this happen it's nice to sort of
look back on it fondly and it's sort of
a weird thing
that when you're in this position you
it's a thing where you kind of have to
tell people that it's happened
but at the same time you kind of want to
keep it a bit more private
because i need to let people know to not
go poking when i disappear for
three weeks yep to leave my family alone
and to leave me alone and to kind of
respect the boundary
of what has happened and you kind of
just need to tell people up front
instead of leaving any sort of ambiguity
in the air because
from my experience that just makes
things worse yeah so
it's interesting because i'm noticing
these two threads kind of weave together
because
it sounds like we're starting us sort of
skirting on parasocial
relationships we're skirting on um
you know pressures of being a streamer
and how
you sort of don't i've worked with a
fair number of streamers and one of the
things that really shocks me is that
many of y'all you know are privileged in
many ways but that you guys don't get to
do things that normal people get to do
right in the sense give me an example
grieve in private
like you have to give people an
explanation to like
what like you know most people don't
have to give
you know the rest of the world an
explanation when they like go off and do
something
on their own for like two weeks yeah
it's it's a really strange phenomenon to
have to do
yeah um and and one of the things that
just keeps popping in my mind is like
i was talking to someone who was and i
sort of joked that
if they post a picture of them eating a
taco people will get upset with them for
being like
anti-hot dog right now i have this
feeling a lot and it's it's kind of
skirting between am i an [ __ ] or is
this like
my life now where i go out and you see
people look at you and then the first
assumption is do they know who i am
and then the part of me that kicks in is
like well
who do you think you are thinking that
people should know who you are but then
it's kind of
something that's happened in such a
pattern that it's hard
not to kind of fall under that
assumption and then when i'm out eating
at that moment where i'm i'm getting
ready to eat my food i'm like how do i
eat food again
how do humans eat food normally do i
look weird
are they gonna like talk about how i ate
my food weirdly or what i ordered and
things like that it's such
it's a weird sort of circus that goes on
in your brain when these things happen
um yeah i
jack it's talking about those kinds of
things which is why i love doing what i
do
because what i'm hearing from you is
that like your mind
is doing all kinds of stuff that
because of your life it's been trained
to do which are like not
normal things yeah right and and so
and and i really also really get excited
when i hear people sort of talking about
like
who they are like i i like talking about
the stuff i like
exploring kind of what the true nature
of self is
and yeah me too and and i i kind of
noticed because
because of the way that the the examples
that you used about oh like
am i someone like who am i to be someone
like what does that mean to
be someone and to not be someone i mean
at the end of the day you [ __ ] just the
same
as everyone else and you know so it's
not really like you're a different
person but it can sometimes feel like
you're a different person and
how do you navigate that um right so we
can talk about you know the circus that
goes on in your head too
um
i love the way you describe that too so
what where do you want to
what do you want to start with do you
want to start with and i wasn't really
sure whether you wanted to
say something a little bit about your
father or talk about that or we should
just skip over it and
you know get to taking a break or a pair
of social relationships or what
yeah i think i think the video i
uploaded on my channel kind of speaks
for itself
the things that i wanted to share and
the sort of legacy that i want to live
is it's a bit more internal than i want
people to know and i think the sort of
private matters of it
need to stay private personally i think
that it's
it's good not to share too much with
everybody all the time
yeah um and not just skirt over it
because i'm like avoiding it or anything
like that
but just uh i've said my piece you're
allowed to avoid it
true um but i think i've talked about it
enough and
okay i feel like i i've i've dealt with
it in my in my personal time so
perfect um i'm really happy to hear that
you know if that changes
um you know just a couple of quick
things just about grief for you and
everyone else
i lost my dad about nine years ago
and i was really surprised because
what i really felt was that i didn't
need a whole lot of support when it
happened
but i found myself like missing him
at kind of random moments over the next
decade
and and it was sort of like there's all
this support for the first month
and then like what i really needed is
that support sort of spaced out over the
next decade
and so yeah i've sort of realized that
in this sort of
business as well especially is that a
lot of people are there
in the like hyper intense moments and a
lot of people will say a lot of things
in those moments but i've come to
realize that a lot of the people in my
personal life
and a lot of people who i consider
really close friends you can really tell
the merit of their character during
times like this
because i've had some friends say
something immediately and then check in
a week later and then check in a week
later
and that that meant a lot more to me
than everybody just rushing to sort of
get social points
immediately and i noticed that
in some regards a lot of people took it
upon themselves to make it about them
which was a again it's something that i
kind of knew already but i've never been
through something
so intense like this that it became
sort of a writing essay for some people
to sort of
say who could give the best condolences
basically and who could be
the better person at being sorry for me
and then i just become a character and
sort of a
cast member outside of what their
conversation is
and i that was something that i just
wanted to shout out all the people
trolling on it and shut out all the
people just going way overboard in the
other direction and it was
it was everybody in the middle who were
genuine about it that i really
appreciated the most
what i'm hearing is that you became a
sidequest
npc for them yeah and i
i feel like that's what happens to a lot
of streamers you become a character in
people's lives rather than a person
that's something i've always strived to
deal with personally but also let
remind people that i am a human
underneath everything and i'm not
some weird character in your sort of
fantasy i'm not an anime for you to
watch and
fawn overall all the time fawn over
[Laughter]
i'm trying to increase my lexicon i've
been watching a lot of ludwig
um yeah so what how okay
so let can we actually just go back to
um
you know you said you took some time off
last last year to try to figure out who
you are and
what you wanted can we talk about that
yeah sure
um yeah i think for a long time i was
i experienced some like really shitty
years on my channel and then sort of
going through the motions and you
you kind of hit this well perceived peak
of what you want to do what you want to
accomplish and it's all about growth
growth growth all the time and
satisfying your audience and then you
kind of get to a point where that
hits its peak um and you kind of feel
burnt out and you're doing the same
thing and i
i felt like i kind of became a
caricature of myself that i
i do these things and then people
respond to certain aspects of it so i
just double down on those because that's
what people
react to yep and doing that for so long
and getting into that cycle i just
i kind of got tired of my own [ __ ] and i
was making stuff
that i wasn't fulfilled by my audience
could tell they were just showing up
because it was the same time every day
like uh
it's like the same reason people watch
one piece for so long they're sort of in
denial about how long it's going on and
how samey it is
i care after a while i can't get into it
man
yeah i just got into naruto and i'm
trying to like hold out on that and
that's a
that's a bear to take on as well it is
it is
i've been working on naruto now for
probably about 15 years and yeah
you know one episode at a time yeah
but one piece is a completely different
mountain to climb
yeah um yeah just going through those
motions for a while and then
wondering where i kind of fit in with
myself and then
at this big moment where i thought well
can i exist
outside of my channel and outside of my
numbers and outside of this perception
of what people think of me and
who even am i beyond jacksepticeye
anymore
does me as a person as shawn even exist
or the two so melded together that i
can't
differentiate them anymore and i took a
month off to kind of
i i thought i was going to quit i
thought i was done with everything
because i just
i kind of got tired of doing the same
stuff over and over again
um it took a lot of time i got into like
stoicism
and read up on a lot of books about like
marcus aurelius and things like that and
how to deal with
just yourself and how to deal with other
people in a healthier way
and it helped me a lot and i started to
come to some realizations after
reflecting for a while that i i can't
exist
as both and i just need to take the
right amount of time
for each and set healthy boundaries for
each and now
trying to get over kind of the
perceptions of what other people think
about me
versus how i actually act based on that
feedback
and realizing that i can't live my life
for everybody else
the feedback they were giving me i
realized that i would react to that and
then try and do that
and correct everything that was going
wrong according to them
sure um and so i wasn't really living
for me anymore i was kind of living for
what other people wanted me to do and
then it was just so many different
voices so many different opinions that i
couldn't i couldn't accurately
do what everybody wanted because that's
just impossible so it's something that
i've kind of dealt with for a long time
is kind of being a people pleaser and
trying to get over that
um do you want help with that
sure so how long have you been a people
pleaser
probably my whole life i think because
i'm the the youngest in my family and
i've
uh two older brothers and two older
sisters i think that i was always sort
of the
whenever things got tense i feel like i
was sort of the comic relief
of the family to try and like break
tension yeah and make sure that
everybody's
okay um but i think doing it my whole
life i think i started to realize that i
i didn't value myself anymore i didn't
care about my own opinions i just cared
about what other people thought about me
and i've gotten a lot better at it over
the last year but i think there's still
every now and then something will happen
and it'll kind of like hit that nerve
in me that i need to kind of like get
over again
um i don't know it's a bizarre thing
yeah so let's learn about that sure what
what is the what is the nerve what is
the nerve that they hit
just worrying that i've upset somebody
or haven't
met somebody's standards or haven't
given somebody
a good time because it's it's never been
about me it's always been about our
is somebody else having a good time yeah
and getting into this job i think
having so many other people to try and
please after a certain point
you realize that you can't please
everybody which is also cliche and
obvious
and people say it all the time but it's
so hard to actually do
so
jack are you okay if i like take a cup
so first
this is fantastic i'm i'm really happy
to be having this conversation
i i think it makes me so happy when
so i spent many years like studying this
stuff formally and i think it is the
coolest thing in the world when
i meet someone who just threw personal
reflection
has like understood so much of like what
i spent like
time studying and it really just makes
me
it reinforces in my mind that like there
is no substitute for personal reflection
and that you can read all the books in
the world but ultimately all of the
knowledge that you need is actually like
within you which sounds cliche too
and so if it's okay with you what i'd
like to do is
is i think one of the things i can do to
help you on your journey
is just to expand your lexicon and and
kind of
tie like sort of button down a few like
different kinds of concepts and nuances
which i think you already understand
but may not have language for and i
think it'll help you become
more versatile and like dealing with
these things and understanding these
things
let's go so so the first is that in
sanskrit there are two words for
knowledge one is vidya which
gets translated as objective knowledge
and is also like
information and transmissible okay
and then the second is nyan which is
subjective knowledge
not transmissible and oddly enough
in the west we tend to value vidya over
nyan
like we tend to say that unless
you know you can prove it to me so
science is all about vidya for example
so like science is about knowledge that
other people can gain from your efforts
but yogis and i would dare say marcus
aurelius
valued nyan more than vidya and what
they realized is that ultimately
subjective knowledge is superior to
objective knowledge okay
and so you know when you say like this
stuff sounds really cliche
but this is where i would call vidya
information
and nyan understanding and so we can say
cliche things and they sound cliche but
that's from a video perspective
but once you understand them from a neon
perspective
they actually start to shape your
actions and
shape your thoughts instead of being
like a fact that is philosophically or
intellectually or logically true
it becomes like a reality in your mind
which then alters the course of your
life
okay um and so
what i'd really like to explore with you
is i i think you've gained a lot of neon
over the last year or two and sort of
like exploring kind of what that is and
what you've discovered
um but what do you think about those
kind that differentiation of
of knowledge between these two types
i think it makes a lot of sense because
i think well maybe i
maybe i'm not right in saying this but i
feel like the stuff that i've
sort of gotten into over the last year
year and a half is sort of more
on the spiritual side of things um
i'm trying to get and trying to get in
touch with that stuff because
i've always been like a very scientific
minded person
i'm not like the smartest at it but i
always love the sort of
like machinations of how things work and
especially people i love
seeing how people take how they work i
love observing like body language and
how people react the way they react
um but that's all maybe that's like the
objective
side of things and i i really like
getting into sort of
the weeds of how people's brains work
and why everybody's different but the
same
and things like that so i think what
i've just
i think i've sort of broadened my mind
in the last year to realize that
i i can't control everything and the
reason i react certain ways to certain
things is because of the value systems
that i've kind of put on them
and then somebody breaches those value
systems in my mind so then
they're that's bad and you shouldn't do
that but what i've
started to get better at is realize that
just do whatever the [ __ ] you want i
who am i to tell you or to react that
way like just go live your life and i
live my life and hopefully we
we meet somewhere in the middle yeah so
i love the way that you talked about
value systems and how so other i have a
feeling we're going to cover a lot of
terminology today okay
so um so this is also where like buddha
buddha talked about something called
which is suffering it's the sanskrit
word for suffering
and what he said is that the root of
suffering is actually attachment to
expectation
and so what i'm hearing from you is that
you know
someone would do something and then it's
the value system that you
impose upon it that causes you the
suffering
right and so it's it's a really radical
way to look at life because what that
sort of posits
is that suffering or contentment is like
actually yours to control and that when
we let other people
when we when we so far i mean most
people
actually seed control over their their
well-being to the people around them
because they fall into those value
systems
right and when you start to step away
from those things or notice that your
your reactions to the thing is actually
what causes you the suffering
that's when people start to move towards
this
concept called enlightenment which is
sort of the stepwise process
of of eventually getting to the point
where like
you have essentially no reactions
um for as a scientist i'll also kind of
differentiate for a moment that
dukkha is different from pleasure and
pain so you can still experience
pleasure
and pain both with duke
but it sort of operates on a different
axis it's not like the same thing
okay so it's not that you're it
impervious to pain
it's that you're impervious to suffering
if you become enlightened
but if you imagine if you're enlightened
and you give childbirth like you have
childbirth you'll still be in a shitload
of pain
right um so
any thoughts about that concept or how
that relates to kind of your
self-reflections
yeah i think it makes a lot of sense um
i
i think sort of the way i i was
a while ago was that and i think this
sort of falls into the parasocial side
of things as well that
i've i did things for a certain amount
of time and then so many people told me
that i was right or i was smart or
you do this but this other person does
this and you're so much better than them
for doing it this way
that i feel like that sort of worm got
in my brain
a while back and it was as much as it is
praising me
and it's it's great at the time and it's
a compliment
it was putting down the other person and
it essentially built me on this platform
higher than they were in their brain
um and i feel like for me after a while
of hearing that
i i couldn't really tell
what it was doing to me anymore and
i started to realize like both extremes
of like the negative and positive
spectrum can influence your brain in
negative ways
i think yeah i i was about to say i i
think you may not have known what that
worm was doing to you there by the way
there's a sanskrit word for that worm
too
what is it ahamkada
okay i'm gonna forget all of these
that's okay so ahamkara is
technically translated as the i feeling
so it's the feeling of like i i am
dot dot dot oh i thought you said like
eyeball i
oh no and and it gets loosely translated
the closest word that we have in english
is ego
right but it's not just ego so like the
ahamkada has a couple of like
interesting attributes
anything that compares you to another
person is a hum god is the eye feeling
okay and and so um the other key thing
you know if you listen to buddha is that
ahamkar even though it makes you feel
pleasure is always going to be a source
of duk
okay what do you think about that
yeah that makes sense yep like i said i
think you understand all this stuff i'm
just going to give you terminology for
it today
well it's good to reaffirm it as well
and kind of hear it again so you kind of
stay on the path
and and i think that your your neon is
very very clear to me because you used
the word
worm right and and so this is like it's
such a beautiful word for a honk gun
because it kind of like burrows in and
you don't really notice
its negative effects and as you pointed
out you feel
good in the moment right like it's
pleasing for your ego
and then like but once it like kind of
burrows in like it starts like doing
this weird kind of damage
yeah like you know what i mean oh yeah
for sure
can you tell us a little bit about that
well i i was gonna say i feel like it
happens to a lot of people
in this industry um and the
self-awareness kind of evaporates after
a while and the humility kind of
disappears
a lot of times through no fault of their
own because a lot of people just tell
you that
you're amazing and when you become
successful at doing that and people tell
you you're amazing you tend to think
that your way is right
um and then any sort of criticism or any
sort of feedback
becomes an attack and then i i found
myself getting very defensive about
things in the past
um maybe not publicly but definitely
when somebody said something about me
online it's like
well who do they think they are without
and then it's like wait
wait why am i reacting that way yes
it's not it's not a good way of reacting
to things so i'm gonna tunnel down into
that for a moment so a criticism becomes
an attack
so what i want you to notice there is a
criticism is directed at who
all right what i should say
i mean for me it would have been a
jacksepticeye and not
me as a person sort of exactly right so
like
like and i think that's the attack part
so what i was going to say is that
someone can criticize let's say a piece
of content that you make
right but when the hum car is strong
it's not
you don't you take that attack on your
content and you it turns into an attack
on you
right like does that make sense yep like
they're not actually criticizing you as
a person but when the ahm god is strong
you sort of like taunt their aggro and
then like it's pointed to you as a
person
and that's why they use a hum god is the
i feeling so if you think about it
you know you inject yourself into their
criticism
yeah um which is good so it's it's it
seems like you've learned how to
not do that yeah i mean it crops up
every now and then
but i think i've gotten a lot better at
like ego checking myself
um and kind of stopping that trail of
thought before it becomes like i
remember in the past it would be a lot
of like
i need to tweet out something and tell
everybody because this one person
online said something so then i ended up
thinking that everybody was saying this
about me or if four people said it
and it's like well everybody's talking
about that now and then you have to
like respond to it but i think i've
gotten a lot better at just not
responding to it and letting it kind of
just sit
in the ether um and realizing that
because it became this weird thing where
jacksepticeye became this like being
outside of me and outside the audience
it was like everybody was watching this
other entity
that i didn't even have control over
anymore because the community kind of
took it upon itself
to build it into whatever they wanted to
and in some ways that was good but
i think the feeling of me as a person
separate from that kind of
um evaporated yeah so this is where
just to give you once again a little bit
of a structure
which i you know isn't true it's just
for you to consider
way against your experience and then you
be the scientist
and conclude what you want to so one is
that ahamkar
and self-awareness are at opposite ends
of a spectrum
okay so the more egotistical you become
the less self-aware you become
and furthermore that i think the your
awareness
at one point was completely absorbed in
the identity of jacksepticeye
and that you felt a lot of suffering at
that time and the more that you've been
able to externalize
jacksepticeye the more you've been able
to separate who you
are from the character i think the more
at peace
you'll become yeah for sure about that
okay i think there was a lot of there
was a lot of fear in the past of
separating them because then
a lot of people tend to think that oh
well what you're doing is jacksepticeye
is fake then because it's a character
that you're playing and essentially it
is because it's a persona
it's like the best version of me that i
want to show the world
um and it's me and my zone and it's me
going to work and doing what i do
um and i always worry that if i talked
about separating them and setting more
boundaries
that people wouldn't think of what i was
doing as genuine
anymore which it obviously is i don't
think i could do this for this long
and be this excited about what i do if
it was all an
act and so i know this is going to sound
weird but
where does that fear come from
i don't know so that comes from the
ahamkar too
because if you think about it what are
you afraid of you're afraid of how they
will perceive you
do you see that yeah and so like all
that crap
always comes back to the amkar okay how
they will see you
and so like it's sort of like you were
afraid of separating from the ahamkar
because then like they would see you a
particular way but that right
that fear is a hum guard does that make
sense yep
and so it's it's weird because like it
fears for itself it fears for the
dissolution of itself
it warns you against abandoning it
okay what do you think about that
uh could you go into it a little bit
more yeah
so like i i know it sounds kind of weird
but
you know you were afraid of what people
would think of you
right but that thought in and of itself
so like the reason you're not separating
from
your k like like jacks up there's
jacksepticeye and then there's the real
you right
and when you were thinking about
separating the real you from
jacksepticeye
something in your mind warned you
against it
and it said jack don't do that because
if you do
if you separate the ego from your true
self
then what will people say about you they
will say you are not genuine
but that thought in and of itself is
coming from the ahamka
right so it's sort of like you know an
abusive person telling you
not to break up with them because you'll
always be alone
right yeah it's getting kind of weird
and abstract but like
it's just interesting that you know i
think a lot of your thoughts the more
that we tunnel down into this
i think a lot of what is going to have
kept you trapped is going to be that
uh-hum god
like a lot of your hanging out and stuff
yeah for sure
any questions so far no
i think you've been very good at
explaining things how do you feel about
the direction of this conversation
it's great i love it okay this is the
[ __ ] that i live for
okay um yeah i think uh like i was
saying earlier sometimes people will
sort of have an
expectation that if someone has gone
through something like losing a parent
like
we're gonna you know cry and talk about
your dad and all that kind of stuff and
you know i'm sorry to disappoint which i
know once again is like what people come
to dr k to see
yeah and so even right now i have a
little bit of a struggle within me about
oh should i ask him about things that
are like
deeply emotional and then oh jack to
accept a guy's gonna cry
and then it's gonna be a really good
moment everyone's gonna love it and
there's gonna be lots of hearts in chat
you'll get
you'll get your clickbait yeah
absolutely right and so
sometimes what we have to do is like not
give in to that thing
even though that may lead to more growth
but what are we here for
we're not here for growth yeah that's
that's one of the things that i
i think a lot of the burnout that i've
felt about my own channel was also
feeling burnout against
other creators at the same time i think
it was like burn out against
against the system in a way the way
certain people react
to the way the system works like the
algorithm or whatever
terminology you want to use for it that
i think a lot of people show a certain
version of themselves but then when it
gets down to it it's very it's a very
insular sort of
thing that's happening on youtube all
the time is that everybody's kind of
fighting for themselves
and if they have a chance to get more
views out of something they'll go for
that and i
for a while it felt like everyone was
kind of like climbing over each other
of course not everybody's like that
there are some very good genuine
kind-hearted people there who are just
there to have fun
and i've tried to sort of vibe with them
and kind of
magnetize myself towards them more and
get surrounded by those types of people
but i think
it's just something that no one really
wants to talk about how everyone's kind
of like
fighting each other just to get to the
top and then it's like you get to the
top it's like well
what's there like what are you aiming
for it feels like this sort of
idea of growth is kind of leading people
to nowhere
that you get to the top and then what
happens you kind of sacrifice
friendships or you sacrifice personal
health and
mental health and your own time away
from everything and everybody's so
entrapped in their work and
always on and working for themselves
constantly all the time
why do you think that people get trapped
by the idea of growth
i think just the metrics that were shown
all the time kind of do it and the
audience kind of reaffirming that like
oh you're dropping off
well last time you got this many views
on something well this time you're
getting
less or this person did the game and
they got
x number but you did it and you got y
number like
they're so much better and then people
have a fear of they have a fear if they
don't stay on this treadmill
constantly that they're just gonna fall
off and they can never get back onto it
again and that everyone's gonna forget
about them
i've tried to like i've had a bunch of
friends especially after i took that
break
who came to me and talked about it i was
like no it's the best thing you can do
like no one's going to leave you
if some people will and that's fine
you're going to have to just deal with
that
but i feel like the people who are
actually genuinely there
to just have fun and watch your content
are the people who kind of stick around
and for me that was kind of a hard
hurdle to get over as well because i
used to do two videos
every single day for like five years and
i never missed an upload time it was
always the same time every day and i was
so proud of it
but then i became the guy who was
uploading at the exact same time and i
was just so
consistent and i worked so hard and i
realized that i didn't really want to be
that guy
and just work for the sake of having
that title
um and there was more important things
outside of that
again needing to realize if i could
exist outside of that work ethic
how did you realize what was important
um i don't know i think i just
physically and mentally got exhausted
first and then started questioning
things
and then uh being in like a really
healthy relationship now that kind of
gives me the support
and really wanting to spend time in that
um and swim around in that relationship
and enjoy it and have fun with it and
just kind of like hang out and do things
together meant a lot more to me because
i
when i started off my channel it was
like trying to find that sort of family
or that sort of relationship so i dealt
i dove head first into that parasocial
aspect of it where i
i craved that sort of attention from
people because it was like finally
like-minded people who hang out with me
and we all do the same sort of thing we
can all
it kind of felt like a bunch of friends
were showing up each and every day
and then realizing that that
that sort of feeling and that sort of
happiness was never going to come from
an external source and the other people
that i had to sort of
find it within me and i watched a really
nice video about like buddhism on like a
ted talk
where they talked about like well why
are you happy i was like well this
happened today
and you realize well that thing made you
happy and that's not a consistent source
of happiness that
you can't have that same thing every
single day so you need to find a better
way of having consistent
internal happiness to try and like i'm
butchering it but
it was that idea of finding more inner
peace and i think a lot of people sort
of rolled their eyes at that but that
was like fascinating to me
why did they were butchering it
because i feel like they just had such a
magical way with words
and i feel like synopsizing it didn't do
it justice
because it had such a profound impact on
me when i heard it
that i would like people to hear it the
same way and potentially have the
same reaction
so this is where we get subtle so that's
a really wonderful thing
and at the same time what are you doing
to the words that you say
devaluing them yep and you're comparing
them to the ted talk
right there it is again you see how good
they are at explaining buddhism and how
bad i am
there's the aham god so jack if you
really want people to hear it i can
guarantee you that
what you said was like beautifully
explained
and the only thing that got in the way
because you
know this right like why do you think
that the person giving the ted talk
understands it better than you do true
[Music]
and so the only thing that's getting in
the way is your own ego
right so if you've learned something and
you have something to share with the
world
then i know because i know i know you
understand this then just
[ __ ] share it and for the people that
are in the frame of mind to hear it
and are ready to hear it they'll hear it
true and for the people that aren't
ready to hear it they won't hear it
but that like you can't control that
right all you can control is what you
put out there yeah that's true
now if you want to if you want to get
like psychological and all that kind of
stuff then we've got to talk about this
whole like craving attention and family
and parasocial relationships
but that's good let's go baby okay it's
going to be a different tone okay i'm
going to ask you like
personal questions about feelings and
[ __ ] like that it's going to be more of
what
people you know come here to see sure
okay so tell me about your family
growing up
um it's a we had a pretty big family so
there was seven of us
total um my my dad was
an older man he was in his 80s when he
passed
so he would have been 85 this year so he
was he was
much much older than i was
so there was always this sort of
generational gap to things
and i think my brothers and my
especially my older sister
they i feel like they had a stronger
relationship
with him growing up because he was just
more
present he was there he he was in sort
of like his prime years so to speak
um so they always had some sort of
connection whether it be
negative or positive there was there was
at least some sort of like emotional
attachment
there that sounds
kind of sad yeah
i i've often told people that neither of
my parents have never
verbalized that they love me
in a way and it's the thing that i can
tell that they did
and my dad has always talked about how
he was proud of the stuff that i'm doing
especially now
and i can tell that he always like
worked for his family
and he was he he definitely deeply cared
it's just
he's an older irishman from a different
generation so he just
can't he can't verbalize things
camper blaze's thoughts his dreams his
goals
and i feel like that was sort of the
legacy that i wanted to
bring with me to sort of like
be that person for him in a way while
also learning from that experience
how do you mean by that what do you mean
by that
because i i wonder about like his goals
and his aspirations and his dreams
and if he saw enough of the world and if
he
met enough people or if he i don't know
i just
hope that he had fulfilling experiences
in his life
and i feel like for me having
seen stuff like that and somebody who
just works all the time and works really
hard and for a good purpose
i want to make sure that i'm just not
working all the time i want to make sure
that i take the time
to let people know that i love them and
to share my feelings and to
openly talk about things and keep up
with my family and make sure that i'm
seeing parts of the world that i want to
instead of putting it on the back burner
and realizing oh there'll be time for
that
later i want to make sure that i'm not
just working myself to the bone
doing what i do here for the sake of
what other people expect me to do and
that hey i might take a month off every
now and then and
go do whatever the hell i want to do
it sounds like you've become acutely
aware of the value of time
yeah probably through some
through some unfortunate circumstances
um and having to go through
kind of a marathon emotionally to get
there but
i feel like i feel like the sort of
emotional strength i've come away with
has definitely been worth it and i've
definitely matured emotionally
a lot over the last like year or so
yeah you seem like an absolute beast man
i was watching
i don't know about that i was watching
you play bloodborne and one shot things
with the whirly gig saw
like oh hell yeah it was it was the
first time i'd seen your stream and i
think the only time i've seen your
stream
um wow and i was surprised because like
what happened is i someone recommended
bloodborne to me in my in
my channel because i was looking for
something to play good show
yeah it was fantastic and so then i was
like oh like let me just see you know if
anyone's playing bloodborne
because like you know the game is like
five years old now or something right
i saw you just one shotting things and
that's what i think you're doing today
you're just like one-shotting [ __ ] like
left and right bro
well i'll take that your way any day of
the week
um so tell me a little bit about uh so
how old was your dad when you were born
um late 50s okay
and how much older are your siblings
my oldest sister is mid-40s
and my other brothers are in their 40s i
think one of them is about to hit 40
or is 40. i'm bad at my family's age
that still means that your dad it sounds
like was
40 when he had his first child
yeah okay and how old is your ballpark
how old is your mom like about the same
age or no she's
she's 20 years younger than him and so
there's a massive
age difference between them as well so
and you said your dad was
50 when you were born in late 50s yeah
late 50s okay so then your mom was
late 30s when you were born about that
yeah
mid to late 30s and and what do you
remember about kind of like
growing up i remember that
my dad had retired when i was at a young
age
it's like one of the earlier memories i
have of him retiring and they gave him a
lamp
for retiring like here's years of
servitude here's a [ __ ] lamp
and i remember the party for that and i
was taking pictures of it on like
pre-digital photographs and i remember
i remember it was the first time i ever
got to have like a camera in my hand and
i got to take pictures of things and i
took about 40 pictures of this
[ __ ] lamp that were all pointless and
useless and
really badly shot i would love to say
that i had like spielberg's eye at a
young age but i didn't
um but i remember that vividly
i i don't know why i think it was just a
turning point and kind of realizing how
much older my dad was than everybody
else
uh or everybody else's dads because he
was retiring and their theirs wasn't
um and i remember then the
when he was retired he would always he
was like the
the stay-at-home dad then i i would go
to school and
when i come home he would always cook me
my dinner and he was always the person
who was there
it was just me and him in the house for
like a couple of hours after school
every day and i think that those were a
lot more formative for me than i
realized at the time so having him cook
me dinner every day was always something
that i
i now greatly appreciated realizing
kind of like all the hard work he did
growing up and when he was retired he
was like still
taking care of me um and then
like 10 years or so ago when we moved
and it was just kind of like us
like to cut a long story short i lived
in a log cabin in the middle of the
woods for like four years
um and my parents lived in one as well
so i would cook them dinner
every day sort of like the cycle kind of
like continued
at that point and i kind of took care of
them every day
but i i always remember him doing that
for me when i was a kid
what are you feeling right now good
it's nice to remember the good things
that happened with my dad and
kind of recalling all of these memories
that i didn't realize were kind of like
in my brain and then when something like
this happens and you're
i want to reminisce and i want to
remember and think about him fondly it
was like oh yeah these were all
great times and we had some good years
what would you cook uh what would he
cook you for dinner
he would cook me like potato waffles um
i don't know if many people outside of
like uk ireland or whatever would have
those and like fish fingers which you
guys would call fish sticks
and he would cut me that every day and i
would just have a big blob of ketchup on
the side of the plate
i would always say that i went to my
friend's house at one point and they his
mother coke [ __ ] fish fingers i was like
no my dad's the best at cooking them you
don't you don't know what you're doing
and what would what would you make for
them when y'all lived in the log cabin
um a main favorite was like lasagna
i always cook a mean lasagna and they
love that but then
i when i was trying to like get
healthier and like bulk up and work out
and all that kind of stuff in my early
20s
i would cook them like just really
healthy like stir fries and
like just try and cut out as much fat
and try and take care of them
as much as possible because i feel like
they were just very
indulgent because it's just it's easy to
do that
how did they feel about that i don't
think my mother liked it too much
because
to her it was taking out a lot of the
flavor but i think my dad liked it
yeah that's wonderful how did you guys
wind up
and you know i know you mentioned
earlier that there are particular
boundaries you want to keep in terms of
what's private and what isn't
um you know you'd mentioned that you
were pretty happy with what you shared
in terms of the youtube video about your
dad so if i
ask anything that it feels off limits to
you just let me know and we don't have
to
you don't have to answer okay sure i am
i find myself curious though how does
you know how do you wind up in a log
cabin with your parents for four years
or it sounds like you guys had separate
log cabins
yeah it was weird we we sold our house
and then we moved because my
mother wanted to get closer to her
mother so we moved in like next door
because she was in her uh
later years as well so we moved like log
cabins at the time sounded
like fancy and it sounded like a nice
dream sort of getaway sort of thing
everyone thinks that they want us to
live in a log cabin in the woods
that [ __ ] is cold you do not want to
live in one of those yeah oh i'm with
you
i think it's wonderful to spend a
weekend in a lob cat
log cabin oh yeah i i don't know about
living there
no it was tough i it's like
i mean i guess a lot of texans can
relate right now is that
my pipes would freeze every winter and
that ice would like come up to the
insides of the walls
all the time so we had to get like a
stronger heater for the cabin to kind of
like make sure i didn't get hypothermia
yeah
for like a year it was really really
rough with the cold and
i think that's where i kind of i
realized that i didn't want to like
this i didn't want that to be my life i
didn't want that to be like
what i did all day every day and that's
kind of where i started my youtube
channel
maybe out of spite of that sort of
living arrangement
can you tell us a little bit about what
inspired you to start making content on
youtube
i i watched a lot of youtube back in the
day i
i watched i was playing battlefield 3 a
lot back then
and i just got a gaming pc for the first
time when i was like 21
and i was fascinated by i was like how
are people so good at this and how are
they so quick and
i can't even like figure out how to move
the mouse without taking it off the
thing and i felt like such an old man
and then i
i have an upon a channel called level
cap gaming who still makes content
um a really nice guy and he i was
watching him a lot and then one time he
mentioned that he did it as a job
that kind of blew my mind open and i i
never like intended to start doing it as
a job it was never my goal
but i thought man people do this like
full time that's so cool i was like i
wonder what that's
like to do and i kind of got into it and
i was like well i'm playing games all
day anyway
it would be cool to learn how to edit
and talk over them and i've always kind
of been
i've always been fascinated by like
acting and showmanship
and things like that and maybe being the
baby at the family i
i loved being the center of attention at
one point in my life yeah but i
you keep i kind of got into it that way
you keep mentioning being the baby of
the family
can you tell me a little bit about what
that was like for you
um i i don't know quite what that means
but you kind of you know you'll
attribute many things that you say to
being the baby of the family
right i think it was just something i
was told a lot growing up
because i was i was always like a
miniature version of other members of my
family
rather than being my own person i mean
me and my
the brother closest to me were really
really um
alike when i was growing up so i was
always called the younger version of him
um and i think being the baby of the
family my voice kind of got drowned out
a lot when family gatherings would
happen so i kind of like fought to have
my place at the table
i think that's why i've always been good
at sort of talking
and like why a lot of my humor is very
quick and
and things like that i was trying to
like if i said something loud
and quick and clever then i would be
heard more than everybody else
and that feeling of like cutting the
room with laughter was always something
really fun when i was a kid it sounds
like you learned how to be a character
at quite a young age
i guess so i am and that you had to be a
character to be noticed
oh now we're getting into some [ __ ]
aren't we i
warned you oh no i guess so i never
thought about it like that
right i mean but that's what i mean it's
fascinating yeah
that's what i'm hearing from myself now
not that i say it yep
what do you think i think it's
again it's fascinating this is the stuff
that i love like figuring out and
realizing oh that's where certain things
come from and i didn't realize i was
doing that
back then but yeah that absolutely makes
a lot of sense now
yeah i think you were jack's
jacksepticeye long before
you created a youtube account no
probably most likely yeah he's buried
somewhere
yeah well i don't know about buried
sounds to me like he's i was out in the
open from a young man
[Laughter]
and just to also kind of telegraph where
this could go
i think as we explore some of who you've
become jack
there may be certain things that we'll
talk about which could
paint things in a possible negative
light
sure okay so if you feel that way
it's not really my intention to paint
things in a negative light but
in my experience you know kind of like
you said you know things are getting
serious like why did you feel like that
was a serious comment
i think it's just because it sounds so
psychological
to put a pin in it that way it's like oh
okay
it's like it's like those psychologists
like sort of like twist that you see in
movies
all the time where it's like i i used to
always make that joke
people would say i had a dream last
night that i ate marshmallows for eight
hours i'm like what does that say about
you and your father
a lot and i would always just make that
joke um
so hearing it that way is kind of it's
very profound and i kind of like that
sort of stuff
sure so that's a moment of neon
okay does that make sense absolutely
yeah
yeah so that's what we shoot for is
because that's
understanding and then that's gonna like
you know it's not just a bit of
information
that's the light bulb going off
something landing so um
because here's the concern that i have
is if we sort of say that you had to be
funny to be noticed
sure what that also sort of means is
that you kind of weren't
you you weren't given you had to like
kind of elbow your way in
you know and and so what that could
imply is that like people didn't
give you an opportunity to speak
because generally speaking you think
about you know the lower you are on the
totem pole like the more
support you need from loving people to
you know get a seat at the table
do you feel um like we're being
judgmental or anything are you kind of
getting that
kind of flip side of the argument at all
no i mean i can see why it's perceived
judgment but if
if anything it's bettering me as a
person and it's helping me understand
more about why i am
the way i am and i i kind of like that
and it also reaffirms a lot of stuff
that
even these days if i'm talking in a
group and people don't hear me it's not
that i
i feel like i'm important listen to what
i'm saying it's just
i don't like that feeling of being
talked over which i imagine a lot of
people don't
but i feel like that's
i don't know it hits upon a lot of
things that i think are very relevant to
me as a person
even today that i'm trying to like i'm
trying to undo
or trying to come to terms with and be
better about and form healthier habits
with
and i feel like you can't do that unless
you get into
the weeds of it all how does it feel to
be talked over
awful especially when
well in in this day and age it's like
buffering issues and internet issues and
all that kind of thing
it's like you get talked over anyway
just because the sound kind of cuts out
and whatnot
in conference calls but it's i just
i think that's where i'm de-valuing
people talk over you
that's [ __ ] stop doing it
i i feel like that's where
my devaluing of my own opinions come
from
because when i get talked over then i
just kind of like shut down
and then i stop giving my opinion on
things
okay
so do you remember times growing up
where
people didn't respect your opinion and
talked over you
not that i can vividly recall there's
nothing that's like really stands out to
me
i feel like maybe i like said a joke and
no one heard it and that kind of was
like oh man i thought that was a good
one
but nothing where i had anything of like
like profoundness to say and then
somebody talked over and they kind of
like defeated me
now at least nothing comes to mind right
now sure sure sure that makes sense i
think the real
tricky thing there is that you know if
you were devalued then
in retrospect you may not think it was
profound
probably yeah right it's kind of weird i
think that's a very irish way of
speaking that if you're not heard
everyone says well it wasn't important
then
yeah oh interesting um
yeah so let's uh what was it like having
a dad who was like significantly older
did you
kind of feel like because it sounds like
you noticed
that things were different compared to
your friends and stuff like that
yeah i think i just hearing my friends
talk about their dads being at work
i couldn't really relate to that at the
time and also
you get a slight bit of ridiculing
growing up i wouldn't say i was like
bullied about it or anything but
definitely when people hear it it's like
oh it's always like a point of
conversation
it's always something that people feel
like they have to like yeah
they have to like poke further into to
try and understand because it's so
foreign to them for that but for me that
was my
normality but hearing that it wasn't
normal was like well
what's what's wrong with me what's wrong
with my family why why is everyone
reacting to that
do you remember when
you started how old you were when you
started being concerned about your
opinion not being taken seriously and
talk being talked over
um i think it was more in my teenage
years probably
because i think those are very formative
years for anybody and
trying to figure out who you are in the
world and trying to put your stamp on it
which i mean nobody ever does when
they're a teenager it's like a
a weird fallacy that everybody talks
about because you're taught i saw that
in school like you need to know who you
are going into college
you need to know like the rest of your
life is being set up right now what are
you going to be what are you going to do
it's like i don't [ __ ] know i just
want to play metal gear solid and
collect yu-gi-oh cards
yeah um exactly who you were going to be
when you grew up
i mean i did this didn't exist back then
so no
yeah but you are still you i think
that's cool right
anyway i just you know i was just
thinking it was kind of ironic because
you're like i don't know who i am and
that's actually exactly who you were you
knew exactly who you were
well yes just realized you could be that
yeah
that's against the norm at the time at
the time it's like well you grow up you
work in a factory you
slave away you get your two weeks every
year you
you get married you have kids like it's
so burrowed into your head that
from everybody else's experience and in
ireland especially it's like you
you work to get drunk at the weekend and
that's it that's what everybody's lives
were everybody
starts in a small town and everyone
stays in a small town you can go back 20
years later and they're all still there
a lot of them are i mean i shouldn't
generalize but a lot of them are kind of
stuck in the same sort of jobs and stuck
in the same cycles as their parents and
i think i was always determined to not
do that
especially being in the world of video
games i always saw so much more of the
world like oh there's japanese game devs
and like what are they doing and
like oh american game releases are like
earlier than hours like
what's that about that sort of like
knowledge door was opened at a very
young age
and i feel like because ireland is very
heavily religious i remember being 12
years old and like rejecting that
and being like no i don't believe in any
of that i'm not going to church every
weekend
anymore and it was always sort of this
sort of defiance
against culture and i think that
i mean you might not know this but when
i started off my channel i i didn't talk
in my regular voice i had like a
weird sort of americanization
pronunciation of everything because that
was how i spoke clearly and
everybody i watched kind of spoke like
that and to try and speak clearly i
changed my accent because i thought
well if i sound different then
everyone's going to notice that
sounds like you've been on a long
journey to become yourself
oh yeah that's why anybody watching this
right now if you're in your 20s and
everyone's like time to figure out who
you are
in college it's you're not going to
figure that out that quick
it's like at least i didn't maybe some
of you will if you're emotionally
incredibly mature and had to
have a great functioning life but i
didn't i barely know who i am at 31
years old
i feel like it's going to take me until
i'm 40 before i'm like actually
very comfortable with doing whatever i
want to do
yeah it was interesting because i think
those people do exist i
um you know when i was training to
become a psychiatrist i was surprised by
how many people i was surrounded by like
who knew exactly who they were going to
be for a very long time
did they or were they just pretending
that they no
that's the things i think they knew for
a long time
yeah and and looking at them
i'm not so sure that they're lucky i
don't know that they're luckier
i i think that's a value judgment that
we place that knowing who you are
earlier is better but i don't i don't
necessarily think
um but i'm curious what happened when
you told people that you were
not interested in going to church
um my mother didn't like it uh my dad
well my parents have always been like
really good at let me do what i do
almost to a fault
at some point um i'm sure we can come
back to that
in a bit but it was always just
something that everybody did
my friends were always like jealous that
i didn't have to go anymore
because i mean as a kid i didn't really
care about any of it i would be an altar
boy sometimes just so i didn't have to
go to church and sit down the same way
all the time
it's like well at least now i have
something to do at church yeah i can
ring a bell or
hand a collection plate to somebody but
when i was younger i i don't know why i
vividly remember going around
the field at the back of my house i was
just like walking around as kids do
and i just had this like profound point
in my head where i was like i don't
believe in any of this
and then i started like questioning
everything and that sort of like
scientific side of me kicked in
or i wanted to just like question the
world and the universe and
i don't know my mother didn't like it
and she was like don't tell your
grandmother because my grandmother was
hyper religious
and i i never had any sort of like
animosity towards anybody who did
believe i'm like that's
fine even at a young age i was like
that's fine you can still believe that
if you want if i'm wrong i'm wrong
it's just not for me
so it sounds like overall people sort of
were pretty accepting of that
i think so yeah weirdly yeah because
you're
what i'm really hearing is that your mom
wasn't concerned that your
you know your soul would wind up in
eternal hellfire she was more concerned
that your grandmother would find out
which is just actually sort of a tacit
acceptance
of your beliefs right right it's like
you're like
yeah i feel like a lot of my family were
into the religious side of things as a
sort of
sort of like a a transcendental sort of
meditative
aspect of life like knowing that there
was something there and doing prayer and
everything was a very
like calming thing for them to do and
gave them a sense of purpose and
everything and i i feel like that that's
that's fine to do that i never i i
didn't get that
aspect out of it and my grandmother i
think definitely got that
in her later years and it was something
to like keep her company and
give her sort of peace of mind every day
and i i think that that's kind of nice
yeah so i think at that point it doesn't
matter if it's real or not it was real
for her so it doesn't matter
i was i had i was kind of fishing around
a little bit there
because i'm going to be sniffing around
for you know moments where you felt
devalued and talked over
and and you know sort of coming out
as being agnostic or atheistic in a in a
catholic uh household
um would be you know kind of prime
prime time for being disrespected and
undervalued but i'm not really hearing
that at all
yeah i think ireland was in sort of a
transitional period at that point
where the church kind of ruled
everything versus government and
i think in the 90s to early 2000s it
kind of shifted very drastically
um so right now i have a pretty clear
intention just in my head and i want to
share that with you and you let me know
if that's good or not
which is that i'm going to try to help
you understand a little bit about this
devaluing business
and being talked over sure and in order
to do that i think what we need to do is
access that emotion like a little bit
more
raleigh if you can't in a raw format
what i mean
if you can't think of any time during
your teenage years when you really felt
like you were talked over people didn't
listen
then that's okay um then what i'm going
to ask you is there a time recently
that you sort of really felt that way
and it bothered you
um i think
just doing because i've been doing a lot
more like larger multiplayer sessions
with people
and i feel like just the nature of like
i said the way the internet buffering
and everything is sometimes what you say
can get lost
and i think sometimes it kind of like it
kind of triggers that sort of response
in me
but i think nowadays it's not sort of a
malicious like how dare they not listen
to me it's more of like a
ah they probably just didn't hear it and
that's fine i think
i've tried to get a little better about
realizing that like what i said doesn't
always need to be heard all the time
yeah so so that's actually a really good
nuance which i want to point out which
is that
your reaction to them not hearing you is
somewhat automatic
and then a different part of your mind
has to kind of calm
that pissed off part down do you see
that
yep and and so still what happens though
is that programming
activates in those moments
sure and so the question is like so
let's move a little bit further back
has there been a time that you can think
of where that programming sort of
activated before
ideally we want to find something before
like a year ago because i think that's
really when you started to gain a lot of
self-awareness
and the more self-awareness you have the
less that that programming is going to
control you
because that too do you see how you have
the reaction
and then awareness steps in and then you
rationalize
and then you kind of end up in a sort of
more peaceful place
yeah and so what you want to do is go
back to
sorry go ahead i was going to say maybe
some
scenarios again with like other creators
where we're
we're at like uh a business thing or
something or maybe we're trying to get
like
feedback on something and i say
something and then i get talked over
by them and then their opinion matters
more in the eye
of the eyes of the people who are asking
and then
i think that sort of like it just shuts
me down a little
[Music]
and just that because i i guess it's
sort of like imposter syndrome that
i feel like a lot of why i am who i am
now and
where i got to is a lot of like
circumstance and look
um definitely hard work put in
but getting to this point now like being
told a lot that like oh you got a
pewdiepie shout out that's why you're
popular
and things like that it's like i i was
never allowed to enjoy the merits of my
own success
for what they were absolutely that had a
contributing factor to it
um but then always feeling like the
lesser of
greater people i think that
that's where it kind of kicks in
do you feel like you were the youngest
child in the household of youtube
probably yeah i feel like
because i came on the i came on a tail
end of a lot of things where
like bigger youtubers like a pewdiepie
or a markiplier would have been in the
same space and
for a long time the three of us were
associated incredibly heavily together
but i was always considered like i just
kind of like came along
that i didn't pioneer anything that i
didn't like set the ground for anything
and i felt like a lot of times i'm like
well i feel like i deserve a little bit
of
recognition in like certain aspects of
what i did but just hearing over and
over again that you're
you're not good enough to be considered
on the same level as people like that
i think it's always been this sort of
like comparison in my brain
to other creators of that stature and
then
it was something that i didn't like for
a while because i'm like well these guys
are my friends i don't want to compare
myself
too much to them because then it becomes
me versus them and the youtube system
rather than real realizing like oh no
we're just friends that
like we shouldn't be against each other
yeah so what i'm hearing jack is that
in some ways you've always been sort of
standing in the shadows of giants
yeah it kind of feels like that and so i
think the tricky thing here is that
can i think for a second i need to find
the right words
absolutely go for it
do you think you're standing in the
shadows of giants
let me rephrase is there a part of you
that thinks that you're standing in the
shadows of giants
part of me definitely i feel like
there's a there's like an expectation to
know exactly what you're doing at this
level
to have every move planned out and you
are like 10 steps ahead and you're like
a business mogul and like you got to the
top and like you're the greatest of what
you do
when in actuality a lot of the people
doing this i feel like
a lot of people i talk to have no idea
what they're doing and we're kind of
just taking it day by day
and i'd like to see it perceived more
like that
and i'm kind of just trying to have fun
in the moment rather than
creating 10 businesses a year out from
now and things like that
like most days i don't have a [ __ ]
clue what i'm doing and i feel like
that's fine
i feel like i i want to try and like
normalize that aspect more
normalize the sort of like
breaking down of the pedestals of sort
of
the the idolization of things because i
feel like that's
that's where a lot of the the stan
culture comes from
which i feel like the what culture
oh am i gonna have to explain something
to you
please you don't know what stan culture
is
no so you have fans of something
and then standing something is like the
next level
of that so it's like whenever you hear
of like
k-pop twitter or something like that or
people being
like very hyper aggressive and i i by no
means want to tire everybody with the
same brush here
um i'm just trying to like break it down
that standing is like really
really obsessive like idolization of
something where it like consumes your
life and you're like hyper into it and
everything about your day
is part of it um but i feel like that
leads to a lot of negative things i feel
like it leads to a lot of
because people talk about haters a lot
and like ignore the haters and like
don't listen to them
like sometimes they have a little bit of
good things to say
sometimes you kind of need a little bit
of that because sometimes you're not
right about everything
but on the other scale of things you
have the stands
and i feel like those are also not there
to help
you in most regards but they are to
build you up they're there to make you
a team to fight on and i i didn't like
people doing that with me either because
then the comparison
happens and then everyone fights for
their you become a fighter in a game
you become a character in a show a tribe
yeah like that a lot of people who are
charging onto the field of battle with
their banners with that have
jacksepticeye
and then other people have you know the
other youtubers
and that tribalization happens and then
everyone fights for you
on your behalf and from an outside
perspective
it can look cool but i feel like it's
just not helping me
it's not good for anybody because i feel
like i can
i i just don't want people talking for
me i don't want people to feel like they
know who i am
100 where they feel like they're like my
best friend online
and then they go start attacking other
people in my stead
when i'm a 31 year old man i can fight
my own fights if i'm ignoring something
it's probably for a very good reason
you can speak for yourself exactly
i mean not always i i definitely didn't
speak up when i should have but
i feel like these days absolutely i
i i'm allowed to speak for myself and
it's i feel like a lot of people have a
hard time
tackling that because it feels like
you're attacking your fans
when that's not at all what i'm trying
to do i'm trying to let people know that
hey
some of you go a little bit too far
thankfully
humorous manner
when you point that i used to i used to
i think these days i've gotten a lot
better at like setting the boundary
and just cutting things off when they
need to
so jack i've got a couple questions but
i'm noticing like a bizarrely common
theme here and i don't know if it's just
because i'm
you know looking to make constellations
out of stars here
okay but i'm hearing these same themes
of like speaking
up and being heard and other people
talking
interestingly enough i don't know if
they're talking over you here
but they're talking for you and then
it's our we have to sort of decide
as scientists whether we want to do the
mental gymnastics of saying that those
two things are connected
is it talking over you or is it simply
that like because what i'm really
hearing is a common theme of
you really having to carve out your
voice
yeah i feel like that's fair
and and so then the question becomes you
said that in the past
you didn't speak up for yourself what do
you mean by that like now you've gotten
better about it
i feel like if i saw something in my
community that was getting out of hand
i would kind of brush it aside and hope
that it would just go away
and kind of like funnel in something
else to kind of drown it out
yeah or like if i saw something on
twitter getting out of hand
i would just ignore it and then move on
and then hope that everyone just reacts
to the next thing that i do
instead of just calling it out
i mean some some things can probably
just be left alone because there's no
point like
making a mountain out of a molehill but
definitely some of the stuff that's kind
of pushed my boundaries
and pushed me as a person and that i
didn't appreciate
i think i've gotten better at
just drawing attention to it and saying
like that's not okay please stop
okay i still i still falter every now
and then but it's something i've tried
to get much better at over the years
so jack um i i'm going to share with you
a couple of thoughts these are going to
be like pretty half formed
but i want to leave you with something
you know if if it strikes a chord with
you and and you want to talk about it
you're
you know we're more than welcome to i'm
going to sort of
yeah i'm just gonna toss it out because
i think you're an incredibly
self-reflective person and i think that
even though it makes for a little bit of
unsatisfying television
i wanna give you something to turn over
in your mind and
and maybe it'll help okay and then if
something
triggers and and there's an experience
that you can think of or
it really resonates with the way that
you feel like we can certainly talk more
about it
but usually what i do is i ask a bunch
of questions and then i offer a
conclusion
at this point i'm going to just offer
the potential conclusion first and then
like we can sort through
you know i like to make it sort of like
the climax but you know
here it goes so so i i think this is
going to sound kind of weird but i think
a lot of this actually comes back so we
were
kind of hunting around for this idea
that there may have been moments in your
life where you had something to say and
people spoke over you
and and the funny thing is that you know
that really sounds like it's the thing
but when i ask you about that you're
like ah nothing really
jumps out we sort of went down the dead
end of the religious thing because that
sounds like oh man like that was like oh
he was like religion he liked practicing
religious freedom and he was oppressed
oh my god that's when he lost his voice
it's perfect oppression
great but this was sort of a dead end
too right
yeah so so i i think what what i'd like
to toss out then if that's a dead end
like let's just let it be a dead end
like that's okay
and oddly enough i think some of this
may have to come from your perception
that you're standing in the shoulder in
the shadows of giants
and what i mean by that is like so what
i'm hearing you say is that you have to
you know you have to elbow your way to
the table
you have to really like go out of your
way to be noticed
and so if we really think about it like
you know the things that bother us
like when people talk over you or don't
listen to your opinion
that could be sort of traumatic in its
origin in the sense that something
happened to you at some point
like you know sometimes we'll see this
kind of thing with people who grew up in
abusive households where they're like
they really weren't
they had something to say like i worked
with one particular patient who was
molested in a gas station bathroom
and like tried to tell people and like
people wouldn't
listen and and so
it was like a really challenging sort of
situation where like he was trying to
speak and like
people weren't listening and so
sometimes that's where that kind of
comes from i'm not really
getting any of that from you so the
other option is that it's not actually
that you were ever truly spoken over
but that you felt like you didn't belong
and so anything that exposes that
or resonates with that genuine fear that
you have about yourself
is what like really kind of triggers you
so it's sort of like
this idea that you know it's not that
other people
didn't let you speak it's that you kind
of feel like you're
playing in a game with the big boys and
that you're the small you're the
youngest kid in the room
and so as you carry that fear within you
you're kind of very sensitive to
anything
which like may rub up against it
so if someone says something you know
it's sort of like if i'm insecure about
my appearance
and someone doesn't give me a job and
then i'm like oh it's because
the other person was prettier than i am
it's not because
that's not true at all maybe it's true i
mean i don't know but our
own insecurities are the things that
cause us suffering because
our brain is sort of scanning for a
confirmation bias to make us feel like
devalued
yeah so the interesting thing is like
maybe we can approach it from sort of a
traumatic angle where you were really
not listened to but the other thing is
that you
you genuinely there's a part of you and
so i kind of asked you this earlier
do you feel like you're kind of like
there's a part of you and this is the
tricky thing is that
as the awareness grows outside of
jacksepticeye this other part of you is
going to get kind of packaged
and set aside and there are going to be
moments where you're more aware where
that thing isn't really going to have
any power over you
but your own awareness outside of
jacksepticeye is going to fluctuate
and in periods of time when your own
awareness is low
that kind of devaluing insecurity the
idea that you're the small
kid in the room full of big kids that
you're the kid whose dad is retired and
there's like there's like everyone else
and then there's you
and and if that's really the case then
like i think the the sensitivity
to you know other people speaking over
you
may come from your own insecurity that
you don't deserve to speak
yeah what do you think about that
i mean it feels like you're hitting a
lot of the right points
is that feels like that's kind of yeah i
feel like that's kind of the
avenue that i'm in um
it's kind of because i i have always
wondered that like where where is it
coming from why do i feel this way and
why there why do i react a certain way
and trying to get over it but never
really fully understanding where it
comes from
to begin with yeah um
so it's always been a tricky thing to
grapple with
so then the question becomes when did
you start to
feel like you weren't good enough
or that you not good enough good enough
isn't the right word when did you
start to feel that you were kind of last
place
in a particular group of people oh
that's school for sure
like even from the earliest ages seeing
i had a lot of friends who were very
very smart
and who were very good at like maths or
some were good at
xyz subject and i always felt like i
kind of
lagged behind and i didn't get like bad
grades but
my friends were always getting great
grades and they were always doing so
much better than me and i remember
just not being out like certain things
didn't click with me but
i never really had the hunger to make
them click with me
but the dissatisfaction of not feeling
like i kept up with them
was still present and i feel like are we
talking about your school friends or
pewdiepie and markiplier
no school friends school friends um
they i feel like when i was in college
as well i went to college twice and the
first time i went for like
music production um in my when i was
like 18 19
and i i remember leaving that course
because even though i passed all my
exams year two
i didn't go back for the third year
because i felt like i just didn't get it
i other people were like sailing ahead
they had so much hunger for they
understood everything all the time
and i just couldn't get it it didn't
click with me
so instead of asking for help and
admitting that i looked dumb
i felt like i had to just like leave
that i
i'm not smart enough to keep up with
these people so this just isn't the
place for me i need to like get out of
here
um and i feel like that sort of
that fear of looking dumb has always
been sort of something that's persisted
in my life for a very long time
and i feel like doing this sort of job
as well it's it's very easy for people
to just
say that to you um
and it's it's like it's not like one of
those like super biting like slurs or
anything like that it's just something
so
childish and benign sounding but it it's
always like struck a chord with me
so i'm like damn it's like i really do
suck at this don't i
and i always kind of shoot myself down
as a result of that
so let me ask you something when you
feel like someone is talking over
you does it feel to you like you have to
rebel
against that part because like like
here's what i'm envisioning okay this is
gonna get
man this is gonna fall apart real quick
so
you know it's my fault really not yours
if i can't explain this but here's what
i'm envisioning and it's going to happen
lightning quick okay
so like you're not a failure you've
never thought of yourself as a failure
because you always passed your exams
like you actually you know
finished your two years but everyone
else is just
so much better and you carry that
thought with you
that everyone else is so much better but
then there's another part of your mind
that's like [ __ ] we can't
think that way about ourselves and so
like if someone else
even remotely like
suggests that they are better than you
you're like
that part of you comes rushing to your
rescue and they're like no
jack's opinion is just as good as yours
how dare you guys treat him that way
i deserve to speak and i'm not stupid
yeah is that what happens
yeah i don't think in as much of an
aggressive way but
definitely that sort of like tide starts
rolling in pretty quick
right but but the tide is a response
to that initial insecurity what do you
think about that and it's it's going to
be quick it could be hard to notice
and i could be wrong yeah no absolutely
yeah
so now if you want to unravel this
you've actually got two or three options
okay
one is that you can notice that
protective part of you
and that protective part of you like if
you i know it sounds weird
but if you disarm that that's gonna be
the same thing as like
looking at yourself and asking for help
does that make sense like both of those
are protective mechanisms
yeah and so if you dismantle that with
your awareness or if you notice it
this will start to dwindle away because
i
it's hard to describe but like if you
stop the over compensation
then you can actually fix the problem
but as long as you're applying band-aids
like you're never going to get to the
root of it yeah and then the other thing
that you can do is actually
explore and this is the kind of thing
that you you know you can do with a
therapist
or um you're a twitch streamer yeah okay
um so so this is also where you know
this is the kind of work that our
our creator coaching program does but
i'd say if you haven't seen a therapist
it's a good thing to work on
um which is that that initial idea of
like why did you start devaluing
yourself
right and you got to talk and this is
where you've got a lot of stories
and so this is where like you have to
talk through and sort of sit with and
reflect on
all these instances and they're gonna be
tiny tiny instances
where you didn't fail but you felt like
other people were better
right and like as you settle
each of those moments down then you'll
be free of this
okay thoughts questions
responses yeah i mean again
you're very good at explaining things so
i think you kind of hit the nail on the
head
um and it's kind of it's things that
i've kind of known for a while
and especially again a lot of the
reflecting over the last year i've
gotten better at like
when these things happen to kind of like
stop and take a pause
and think about it objectively and
realize like
what they're saying is not the truth and
kind of has no bearing on me and i
shouldn't take it so much to heart
every time i've definitely gotten better
at it but i still i still think i'm on
that journey
yeah so so let me try to help you just a
little bit of tweaking that
the first step is to say i shouldn't
take it the heart
to heart the second step is why do i
take that to heart in the first place
okay because you could take all kinds of
stuff to heart
does that make sense yeah like your
physical appearance
you know whatever your accent right
and so like like there are lots of
things which you have allowed yourself
to be
but this is the one thing that still
like
is the [ __ ] in the armor that like you
do take to heart so forget about the
fact that i mean
you think you've you're halfway there so
the next step is
why does this thing resonate with you so
much
right and as you explore that then
you'll get to the real root of it
yeah yeah that makes a lot of sense
cool awesome
[Music]
i feel like we're at a decent stopping
point i mean
but you know it's sort of like i feel
like if we keep talking we have to open
up something else
um yeah and we'd probably be here for
another three hours
so so i also find that when i'm working
with someone
i think it's important from a memory
consolidation point to kind of like
pause and let you kind of process this
digest this
express skepticism with yourself etc and
you can always like revisit things later
but like this is what i kind of want to
leave you with
especially given your own capacity for
self-reflection i think it's like pretty
good
well i hope so but yeah i think that's a
good like pin to put on things
yeah um do you have any questions or
anything that i can try to clarify
further or anything that you feel like
didn't make sense
um no i feel like if it didn't at the
time i would have
poked a little bit further and asked
about it yeah and i thought it was very
helpful when i sort of
sniffed up the idea of like you know
people talking over you when you were a
kid and you were kind of like nah
nothing comes in mind and that's really
helpful so that is i think ultimately
what allowed us because if you had sort
of played along i don't think we would
have ever gotten here
yeah i i like that sort of avenue aspect
of doing things because i can sit here
and think about it all day but there's
just so much to consolidate
then like i you'd never know where to
start it's like well what am i trying to
fix and what am i trying to think about
what am i where am i trying to start
with any of it so it's nice to have
somebody kind of like funnel that down
yep and and i think this is where like
if something doesn't resonate to you
with you
ultimately it's not about what i think
it's about what fits
right when i say something some things
are going to resonate and some things
aren't and you really know
and this is what marcus aurelius would
say is that like you know everything
you just don't know that you know well i
don't know if you would say that
precisely but
you know that that like the change comes
from within that the neon is like buried
within you
and and all you have to do is follow
that internal compass and you'll get to
your answers
yeah i think the the self-confidence in
myself is something that i
definitely need to work on a little bit
further
yep maybe forever but i don't think
that's a bad thing
no i don't think so yeah so i think it's
interesting because you know we've
stayed away from the term
self-confidence because i think you come
across and you would even describe
yourself
as a confident person
did i wouldn't you
i guess so i'm confident
and i'm confident in my myself yeah like
me as a person yeah um outside of
everything i i kind of know who i might
yeah i know where my brain is at
yeah and and i think that this is the
other interesting thing is that
you know that self-confidence is outside
of jacksepticeye
and jacksepticeye thinks that
he's you know the youngest kid in the
room
and and so that's that's what we kind of
got to dig into
yeah cool do you meditate
uh probably not as frequently as i would
like to but it's definitely something
i've started doing
in the last year i was doing it a little
bit before this call
even what kind of meditation do you do
if you don't mind me asking
i don't know if i'd have a term for it
but i like to just like
sit in silence and kind of like just
focus on my breath
and my breathing and try and camp things
down i try to think about nothing
okay and kind of just have like one
focal point
in my body and just kind of sit there
with that for like 20 minutes
what's the focal point you use uh
it's usually like my nose or just my my
breathing in general
okay um can i share with you a slightly
different technique please
so i'm going to teach you a technique
that comes from
kundalini tantra or kundalini yoga
and kundalini yoga is like this business
about chakras or chakras
which are these sort of energy centers
it's super super hokey not very
scientific
but particularly what i want to do is
teach you a meditation technique that is
going to govern
and strengthen this once again not very
scientific
concept of the third eye which is like
your sense of intuition and
understanding
so like knowledge and nyan comes from
the third eye
and i think that when you're the journey
that you're on
jack is like one that really has to do
with a lot of like
understanding and so i don't think you
need success
i don't think you need self-compassion i
don't think you need to
you know conquer your impulsive desires
or anything like that there are
techniques for all that kind of crap
but i think if i had to share one thing
with you it would just be to enhance
your ability to understand
i was about to say yourself but i'm not
going to add anything just understand
period
okay um how does that sound to you great
so i want you to sit up straight your
back and neck need to be straight
okay okay so this is um so
and uh take off your glasses
i think yeah okay so i know this is
gonna sound it's gonna be really weird
but what i'm gonna ask you to do is
is close your close your eyes and then
i'm going to ask you to take i'll show
you so i want you to take your middle
finger and i want you to hover it
like maybe a few centimeters
off of the middle of your two eyebrows
and slightly above
okay so there's a point right here yeah
now close your eyes don't touch
don't touch and focus on the sensation
kind of in your forehead that your
middle finger is hovering over
are you able to kind of feel something
there
yeah yeah that's weird yes it's gonna be
so just focus on that for like let's say
so actually let's pause for a second go
ahead and open your eyes
so what we're going to do is we're going
to do some deep breathing for about 30
seconds and then i want you to start
that practice
and then we're going gonna do that for
about 60 seconds where you're going to
hold your middle finger over that point
and then after about 60 seconds i'm
going to ask you to relax
i want you to adopt let me think about
this
chin mudra so do this with your hands
okay and then put them palms face up
on your knees when we're done okay so
it's gonna be 30 seconds of breathing
one minute of finger over that and then
adopt this mudra
and then just sit there and i want you
to continue concentrating on that spot
okay okay and we'll do a total of about
maybe three minutes of practice
so 30 seconds 60 seconds and then 90
seconds of just focusing on that spot
okay two questions yeah when i do this
should i keep my eyes closed yes eyes
closed the whole time
okay and will you prompt me when to
switch yes
okay okay beautiful okay so let's close
your eyes
and let's just start by anchoring
ourself in the breath
breathe nice and slow
really want to stretch out that
exhalation
and now take your middle finger on your
right hand and hover it between your
eyebrows and slightly above
and you can vary how close it is you
don't want to touch
but there's going to be a particular
distance
that will kind of maximize the sensation
so focus on that sensation we'll do this
for about 60 seconds
don't try to move around too much
once you find like a decent spot just
stay there
and concentrate on your eyebrow center
it may feel a little bit intense
but try to stay on top of it continue
your attention there
and now let your hands come down let
your eyes remain closed
and continue concentrating on that point
now in a relaxed manner
try to drive your attention
or put energy into that point
focus your concentration
into the eyebrow center
we'll practice for another 60 seconds
now let yourself come back
let your eyes remain closed but let the
eyebrow center go
return back to where you are
your breath returns
notice your body and your mind as they
start to wake up again
and now i want you to put your palms
together in front of you in sort of a
namaste position
and then rub them together rub rub rub
rub rub hot
hot hot and cup them over your eyes
take a deep breath in and as you exhale
slowly open your eyes with your palms
covering them
as the breath completes let your hands
come down
that was great
smile says it all yeah
i love that what did you love about it
i love the what's the right word for it
i love the
the focus of it i tend to
when i try and meditate on my own i tend
to get very sporadic
thoughts and it's it's very hard to
control them and
bring them back non-judgmentally to
nothing
and it's like to focus on my breath and
everything is one thing but then i get
aware of like
am i breathing too much am i breathing
too little that kind of stuff so it's
nice
to like it shut off my brain more i
think
and it helped me have a better focal
point did you experience any sensations
um i don't think so on the first time
okay just sort of like
a lightness okay totally fine
um but you know if it if it grabbed your
attention
that's the point of a good meditation
technique and i think this is hard
because
you know this gets we get this gets lost
with like all of the apps
because the apps aren't really tailored
right
but i think you know a good meditation
technique should
help it become easier for you to
meditate
and and ideally what a good meditation
technique would do is let your mind
fall into the meditation more naturally
as opposed to like
wrangling it and forcing it in right
um which is i think the way that a lot
of people kind of do it nowadays but
you know yeah so i i'd say
i think a lot of people tend to think
like am i meditating right am i doing it
is this meditation yep and i think for
me a good one was um
binaural stimulation helped a lot and i
talked to a therapist before about like
cognitive behavioral stuff and like
doing stuff with like a pen back and
forth and like making sure your eyes are
drifting back and forth and that
that definitely helped me a lot so
anything sort of like
anything with sort of like a sensation
kind of gets me into it more i think
yeah and also if if there's a
fluctuating sensation i think that's
going to work better for you too
but i really think you you sort of
stumbled upon the preparatory practice
to this practice so this
practice is sort of phase two of a
sequence of practices
and phase one is concentrating on your
breath in the tip of your nose and
actually gazing
at the tip of your nose um so i think
you're sort of naturally gravitating
along this path i think also where you
are it sort of fits because this is the
path of like understanding it's not
going to do anything for you it's just
going to give you answers
and so try it out i'd say you can do
this practice for
three to five minutes i recommend about
20 minutes of total practice
at least three days a week that's from a
clinical standpoint and sort of a
neuroscience standpoint what's required
to make
changes in your brain right but i would
try to do this practice three to five
minutes and then you can combine
you know the other things that you do
with it you can lengthen it out if you
want to if you want to do this for a
full 20 minutes that would be wonderful
but
don't stress about it sure i'll try it
and then if we get a chance if you do
the practice diligently
and we get a chance to follow up at some
point um
you know just let me know and then i'll
teach you
step three okay
okay exciting okay well
thanks for coming on jack no problem
this is great
yeah and and good luck to you any last
thoughts or questions before we
wrap up uh no i was just gonna ask about
like um
how long to meditate and how often and
stuff like that so you answered that
already
yeah um good well you know
best of luck to you i think it was
awesome having you i i hope that
i really loved our conversation um it
was
awesome because i think you've come so
far on your own it's like really fun to
work with someone who's
you know halfway there yeah no this is
great this is the
type of conversation that i love and
i've always been trying to like champion
mental health for years on
youtube and what i do so it's good to
have like
tools to deal with this sort of stuff
and just talk it out and reaffirm things
yeah i think it's wonderful that you're
championing mental health i think part
of
you know a mistake that we sometimes
make is because sometimes
things do get kind of emotionally
cathartic on this channel i think
everyone thinks that understanding
mental health has to be like
a painful you know tearful kind of thing
but i i think
understanding your mind is can actually
be like a really fun
and kind of curious sort of exploration
and i think you really exemplified that
really really well today
it doesn't have to be like therapy you
know where you're like talking about
like uh my dad
like passed away and like he didn't love
me yeah
it's like you know you know your dad
loved you it's clear yeah you know
you don't need to be tragic about it
exactly right so
exploring mental health even the
challenges that we face can actually be
like
pleasant enjoyable and funny and
insightful
and i think you did a wonderful job of
kind of walking that journey today so
thank you so much
well i had a great guide yeah well
you're very welcome
so have a good day and um you know good
luck to you man
yeah you too i hope everything in texas
settles down soon and yeah
you don't have to worry about things i
hope so too i think um i it's supposed
to be in the 70s
you know which is like what what is that
like um
like 30 celsius i think
something like that it's hot yeah yeah
oh no not 30. what am i thinking
i mean i can't fat correct you anyway so
you can say whatever you want
um but anyway have a good day and best
of luck to you man
yeah you too thanks for having me bye
okay chat who are we um
yeah it's 20. we need to subtract 10.